
Tiers of Existence

                                  Rulebook


© 2005-2013 Corbin Campbell

All Rights Reserved


                                Introduction


Tiers of Existence is the game of dimensional epitome. Combining game
elements such as tactical cardplay, innovative game board design and
traditional 'roll the dice and move a token.' With an unprecedented level
of nuance for a board game, Tiers of Existence is a game family and friends
can truly enjoy.

The traditional roll and move game mechanics provide older players a level
of comfort while learning the newer style of gameplay. Fate Harvest cards
allow multiple strategies in conjunction with the squares of the game
boards.

The blend of novel and traditional gameplay allows veteran players to
reminisce whether playing casually or competitively with family and
friends.

Play time is adjustable in two ways. One way is to reduce the number of
tokens required in a Staging Pile by 1, to help the game proceed more
quickly, or increase the number of tokens required by 1, to increase the
length of the game. The second way is to allow an additional Tier token in
play on each Tier, which can also speed up the game a little bit.


                                  Objective


The goal of the game is to achieve the fifth dimension, from whence one
controls reality, existence, and the fate of the universe.

The first player to land on You Win! on the 4th Tier wins the game
(signifying that the player has achieved 5th dimensional existence).

However, you must land precisely on the You Win! square to win. If you roll
a number that would take you past that square, you go around the 4th Tier
game board again.


                       A Note on Increasing Dimension


A point represents a zero dimension. A line represents a single dimension.
A plane represents two dimensions.  A cube represents three dimensions.
Energy represents the fourth dimension.  Only living beings can perceive
the dimensions, and only intelligent life is able to transcend them through
the fifth dimension, Time. Mastery of Time/Space is essential to conquering
(or even just exploring) the universe.

1st Dimension = 1st Tier
2nd Dimension = 2nd Tier
Etc.

                              Table of Contents


Objective and Dimensions     P. 1

Preparing to Play            P. 2

Ion Battery and Tokens       P. 3

Rounds, Phases, and Turns    P. 4

Typical Game Round           P. 5

Marauders              P. 7

Gameboard Rules        P. 8

Fate Harvest Card Rules           P. 9

Fate Harvest Card List       P. 11

Parts List             P. 16

Warning                P. 17

Dedication             P. 17




                              Preparing to Play


Reviewing the Parts List before you play the game for the first time will
help you become familiar with game terms. Please note that there may be
redundancies in the Rulebook.

Place all four game boards on the table (or tables, or floor, or wherever
you have space to play).

Appoint a Keeper of the Phase Clock and Turn Indicator, who keeps track of
Phases and Turns using the provided Round Gear spinner.

Put the dice on the 1st Tier game board. There should be one black die and
one purple die.

Each player chooses a color. If two or more players want the same color,
they roll the dice. The player with the highest roll gets the desired
color, and players with the lowest rolls must choose a different color.

Get the Fate Harvest cards. You may remove the Color cards of colors that
are not being played. However, since these are the only cards that can be
traded, you may wish to keep them in the deck.

Shuffle the Fate Harvest cards. Put the deck on the Phase Indicator or Turn
Clock on the 1st Tier game mat.

You may want to sort the playing pieces by color the first time you play.
Plastic bags have been provided for this purpose. Please see the related
Warning on the last page of this Rulebook.

The bag with your chosen color playing pieces can be your Ion Battery, if
you don't want to take all of them out of the bag.

Take out one 1st Tier token (the 'armless' wood playing piece named Halma
by The Game Crafter, as opposed to the 3rd Tier wood playing piece that has
'arms' and is called Avatar by The Game Crafter) and place it on the
Start/Birth Canal square at the upper left corner of the 1st Tier. Birth
Canal is the only square on each Tier that has a tree.

Put this Rulebook (and the spinner card) on the table, so that you can
refer to the back cover's guide to Fate Harvest cards, if necessary.

Put tokens, cards, and other materials you won't be using in the game box.

To begin the game, the first player rolls both dice and moves their 1st
Tier token.

Put a hole in the center of the Round Gear where indicated (5" square
reference card that has a 30 point star). Attach the spinner. The Keeper of
the Phase Clock and Turn Indicator can use this spinner to keep track of
Phases and Turns.


                          Ion Batteries and Tokens


The Ion Battery is your draw pile. Each player has their own Ion Battery.
It contains all of your tokens that are not currently in use on the game
boards. All of your tokens that are removed/destroyed are placed in your
Ion Battery. Tokens removed from the Staging Pile are also placed back into
the Ion Battery.  Matter is neither destroyed nor created!

In the unlikely event that a player runs out of tokens of a certain Tier,
they must wait until one of their Tier tokens in play has been destroyed in
order to have a token to draw from the Ion Battery (you may not take tokens
from someone else's Ion Battery!). Until that time, it is assumed that they
have no power to create new tokens of that dimension. The same applies to
Marauder tokens.


                                Rules of Play

                          Rounds, Phases, and Turns

One Round of the game includes five Phases. During each Phase, each player
takes a turn. The Round Gear gives the playing order of the colors for each
Phase.

The game includes a Round Gear (a square reference card to which you attach
a spinner). The Round Gear represents one game Round, and the spinner is
moved through each Turn and Phase (by the appointed Keeper of the Phase
Clock and Turn Indicator).

Players will only have a 1st Tier token when starting the game, and
therefore the first Round of the game only has a 1st Tier Phase. When the
1st Tier Phase ends, the Round is over.

If a player does not have a token on a Tier, then they do not take a turn
for that Tier.

A token in play is a token that is on the board, but does not include the
tokens in the Staging Piles.

Whether or not you have a turn (in any given Phase) is determined by
whether you have a token in play for that Phase.

Each player's turn during a Phase consists of rolling the pair of dice,
choosing a Tier token on that Phase's Tier, and moving that token the
number of spaces indicated by the dice.

Players' turns occur in the same order during the Marauder Phase, although
players who have Marauders will only roll the purple die. Marauders do not
get to roll the black die.

Players must draw a Fate Harvest card when they land on Fate Harvest
squares.

Players may play one card per turn. E.g. If there are two players, there
are two turns per Phase. Each player could play one card during their turn
and one during the other player's turn, which is a total of two cards
played by each player per Phase.

However, a player only gets a turn on a Tier if they have a token on that
Tier.

All tokens continue moving around the Tier until they are destroyed or
removed.

Tokens may only move clockwise.

The Nebula Staging Piles on the 1st Tier game board also indicate the order
of turns for each Phase (from left to right).

There are five Phases as indicated (in order) by the Phase Clock on the 1st
Tier game board: Marauder, 4th Tier, 3rd Tier, 2nd Tier, 1st Tier.

Move the spinner on the Round Gear to keep track of which Turn and Phase is
being played. When a player finishes their Turn they (or the appointed
Keeper of the Phase Clock and Turn Indicator) should turn the spinner to
the next Turn (always clockwise).


                             Typical Game Round


                 Game Round begins with the Marauder Phase.
         Marauder Phase:  Player One, Player Two, Player Three, etc.
  Game Round continues with the 4th Tier Phase through the 1st Tier Phase.
                                Tier Phases:
          Fourth Tier:  Player One, Player Two, Player Three, etc.
                  Third Tier:  Player One, Player Two, etc.
     Second Tier:  ................same as above........................
   First Tier:  ..................same as above...........................
        Then back to the Marauder Phase to start the next game Round.

There are three ways of advancing to higher Tiers:
When a Tier token lands on a Wormhole of Construction on the 1st or 2nd
Tier, you put your token in the Ion Battery, then start a token on the next
Tier. On the 1st Tier, you must land on the square that says to move to the
Wormhole of Construction.

When a Tier token lands on a Nebula, it is placed in the Nebula Staging
Pile. Once there are enough tokens in the Staging Pile, they are placed in
your Ion Battery and you start a token of the next Tier.

Some Fate Harvest cards add tokens to the Tiers.

Number of Tier tokens required in a Nebula Staging Pile to create a token
of the next Tier:
1st Tier Nebula Staging Pile: 4 tokens
2nd Tier Staging Pile: 3 tokens
3rd Tier Staging Pile: 2 tokens
On the 4th Tier, you must land on the You Win! Nebula square to win the
game.

Only two Tier tokens are allowed in play per player per Tier (on the 1st,
2nd, and 3rd Tiers). Extra tokens must wait on the Hatchery.

On the 4th Tier, only one Tier token is allowed to be in play per player.
Any extra tokens must wait on the Hatchery.

Only one Marauder token is allowed per Tier per player (except when an
extra is added by a Fate Harvest card).

On the First Tier, all tokens beyond the two in play and those in the
Staging Pile remain in the player's Ion Battery (draw pile) until the token
in play is destroyed, added to the Staging Pile by a Nebula, or moved up to
the next Tier by a Wormhole of Construction.  When there are less than two
1st Tier tokens in play on the 1st Tier, a new first dimension token is
taken from the Ion Battery and placed on Start.

Any extra Tier tokens (beyond the two in play for the Second and Third
Tiers, or beyond the one in play on the Fourth Tier) must remain in that
Tier's Hatchery until one of the tokens in play on that Tier has been
destroyed, added to the Staging Pile, or 'moved' up to the next Tier by a
Wormhole of Construction, at which point a token may be moved to the Birth
Canal/Start square.

Example:  Red Player goes first according to the order of the Turn
Indicator, and Green Player goes second.

However, if Green Player has a token in play on the Second Tier and one on
the First Tier, and Red Player has only a token in play on the First Tier,
then Green will take a turn on the Second Tier (highest Tier first). Red
Player can't take a turn on the 2nd Tier, since they don't have a 2nd Tier
token in play.

Red will go first on the First Tier and Green will go second, according to
the Turn Indicator order. After they finish their turns on the First Tier,
completing the First Tier Phase, the Marauder Phase begins. Turns are
resolved the same way as in the Tier Phases. Red would go first, if they
have a Marauder, followed by Green.

                                  Marauders


After the Tier Phases, the Marauder Phase begins if there are any Marauders
in play.

If more than one player has a Marauder, they take turns according to the
Turn Indicator.

A player may only move one Marauder during their turn in the Marauder Phase
(regardless of Tier).

Marauders only use the purple die for movement.

A player must choose which Marauder to move before they roll the purple
die.

If a player has only one Marauder, they must move it.

Your Marauders destroy the tokens of other players by passing them.
However, Marauders don't destroy your own tokens.

If a Marauder lands on a space occupied by another token, that token is not
destroyed.

Marauders are considered tokens, too. All tokens continue moving around the
Tier until they are destroyed or removed. Tokens may only move clockwise.

Marauders are only affected when they land on Marauder Transports, Marauder
Sensors, and Abysses. No other space on the board affects Marauders.
Transports allow Marauders to move to a neighboring Tier. Sensors allow
Marauders to move forward two spaces. Abysses completely destroy Marauders.

Marauders cannot enter the Zone of Protection. Also, if a Marauder passes a
token that is on the Breath of Reprieve (Reprieve) space, that token is not
destroyed.


                              Game Board Rules


                    (what the text on the squares means)


Abyss:  Abysses only destroy Marauders, with the exception of the Fourth
Tier Infernal Abyss, which destroys all tokens.  Abysses do not affect
dimensional Tier tokens, excepting the Infernal Abyss, which destroys all
tokens.
Birth Canal:  Where you start a token on that Tier. All Tier tokens and
Marauders are started on this square.
Birth Canal/Start:  On the 1st Tier, the Birth Canal also says "Start."
When you start the game, you put a 1st Tier token on this square.
(Breath of) Reprieve:  Any token occupying this space is safe from
Marauders.
Fate Harvest:  Draw a Fate Harvest card and do what it says.  Some cards
can be held for later use while others must be played immediately. Once you
play a card, you must put it in the discard pile.  Most cards can be played
before or after you roll the dice.  In a case where a card conflicts with
the Rules of Play, the card takes precedence.  Only one Fate Harvest card
may be played per player per turn (regardless of whose turn).
When you run out of cards, shuffle the discard pile, have the player to the
left cut the deck, and put the cards back onto the Fate Harvest Pile.
Hyperthrust:  Moves you a certain amount of spaces, destroying any
opponents' tokens, Marauders included, that you pass along the way.  If
your token lands on the same spot as an opponent's token, their token is
not destroyed.
Marauder Construction Facility:  If your token lands here, you may choose
to build a Marauder, but only if you don't already have a Marauder on this
Tier.  The Marauder is placed in the Birth Canal on this Tier.
Marauder Sensor:  A Marauder that lands on this square gets to move two
more squares.
Marauder Transport:  If a Marauder lands here, it can be moved to the Birth
Canal/Start space of a neighboring Tier.  For example, a Marauder on the
Second Tier landing on a Marauder Transport may only move to the First or
Third Tier, and not the Fourth Tier.  A Marauder landing here is not
required to move to another Tier.
Nebula:  If a Tier token lands on a Nebula, it is placed in that Tier's
Staging Pile.
Staging Pile:  Each Tier has a Staging Pile.  Tokens from that Tier are
placed in its Staging Pile by a Nebula or other means.  When there are a
certain number of tokens in the Staging Pile, they are removed and a token
of the next dimension (Tier) is placed in the Birth Canal of the next Tier.
Time Wrinkle:  Usually affects turns.
Vortex of Regression:  A dimensional Tier token that lands here is moved to
the Start/Birth Canal.
Warp:  Usually affects movement.
Wormhole of Construction:  If your token lands here, place it in your Ion
Battery and place a token of the next dimension on the Birth Canal of the
next Tier.
Zone of Protection:  Shaded spaces through which a Marauder may not pass.
Tokens in the Zone Of Protection are unaffected by most Fate Harvest cards
played by other players. You may, however, play a Fate Harvest movement
card to move one of your own tokens in the Z.O.P.

Cards that affect tokens in the Zones of Protection are: Divine Assistance,
Corpuscle Rot (Color card, Yellow), Galactic Roundabout, Plasma Burst
(Color card, Red), and Graviton Rift (Color card, Black).


Tier tokens in the Z.O.P. are otherwise protected from being sacrificed or
destroyed.


                           Fate Harvest Card Rules


In Tiers of Existence, the Fate Harvest cards are an essential part of your
strategy. Presented here are the rules governing the use of Fate Harvest
cards.

   1. Any time one of your Tier tokens (not Marauders) lands on a Fate
      Harvest square, you draw a card.
   2. Read the cards carefully.
   3. When someone lands on a Fate Harvest square, the next player does not
      take their turn until after the Fate Harvest card is played or held.
   4. Only one Fate Harvest card may be played per player per Phase. In
      other words, each player is limited to playing one Fate Harvest card
      per Phase.
   5. After you play a card, it's placed in the discard pile.
   6. When the Fate Harvest pile is empty, shuffle the discard pile and
      replenish Fate Harvest.
   7. Some movement cards only allow the movement of Tier tokens, or tokens
      of a particular Tier. Other movement cards allow the movement of any
      token, meaning that you can move a Tier token or a Marauder token.
   8. When you move a Marauder due to a movement card, the players of any
      tokens passed other than yours are destroyed. Yours are immune to your
      Marauder.
   9. Although there is a limit of one Marauder in play per Tier, this limit
      does not apply to Marauders added by Fate Harvest cards.
  10. Only the Last Gasp! card and Hyperthrust square allow a Tier token to
      destroy Marauders.
  11. "Move any token," implies of any Tier, player, and type (includes
      Marauders), unless otherwise noted. Note that this does not include
      the Turn Indicator token nor the Phase Clock token.
  12. Tokens in the Zone Of Protection are unaffected by most Fate Harvest
      cards played by other players. You may, however, play a Fate Harvest
      movement card to move one of your own tokens in the Z.O.P. Cards that
      affect tokens in the Zones of Protection are: Divine Assistance,
      Corpuscle Rot (Color card, Yellow), Galactic Roundabout, Plasma Burst
      (Color card, Red), and Graviton Rift (Color card, Black).
  13. Divine Assistance does not allow you to destroy the Turn Indicator
      token nor the Phase Clock token.
  14. Immediate cards must be played immediately. E.g. Your Tier token lands
      on a Fate Harvest square and you draw a card. You read it. If it has
      an "I" in the silver rectangle, it must be played immediately.
  15. Held cards can be played immediately or held for later use in your
      hand. If a card has an "H" in the silver rectangle, it can be held.
  16. Turn cards "Must be played during your turn," implies your turn of any
      Phase, unless otherwise noted. Cards with a "T" in the silver
      rectangle can only be played during your turn.
  17. Any time cards can be played during any turn of any Phase. If a card
      has an "A" in the silver rectangle, it can be played at any time.
  18. Color cards are specific to the player colors. Only the player of that
      color may play the corresponding Color card. Color cards can be traded
      for other Color cards, although you do not have to trade. You are not
      required to trade a Color card to the player of that color when you do
      trade, and can trade the Color card to anyone for another Color card.
      You may not, under any circumstances, trade a Color card for anything
      else. This is not a game of Poker. If a card has a "C" in the silver
      rectangle, it's a Color card.
  19. You may remove the Color cards of the colors that are not being
      played, but this will reduce the number of cards that can be traded.
  20. Precedence cards supersede other cards, as well as token movements.
      All Precedence cards can be played at any time, including the
      Annulment card which doesn't have the "A" in the silver rectangle.
  21. "Precedence!" should be announced when playing a Precedence card so
      that whoever is taking their turn stops and waits for the card to be
      played. Precedence cards played after another card have to happen
      before the other card (regardless of whether that card also has
      Precedence).
  22. When more than one card with Precedence is played, the cards are
      enacted in reverse order. In other words, if two or more cards with
      Precedence are played, the last played is enacted first and the first
      played is enacted last. The only exception to this is when Annulment
      is played, which takes precedence over any card played immediately
      before it and any cards played after it. Since Annulment cancels the
      card before it, other cards played after it are played as if that card
      and Annulment didn't exist.
  23. Precedence cards can also be played before or after a player rolls the
      dice. If a player rolls the dice and another player plays a Precedence
      card, the player who rolled the dice may not move their token until
      after the card has been played and enacted. E.g. A player rolls the
      purple die to move their Marauder token. You play a movement card that
      has Precedence. Since the card has Precedence, you can move a Tier
      token to safety that would have otherwise been destroyed by the
      Marauder.
  24. If there are any instances where the cards conflict with game board
      squares, the cards are more important, except when Tier tokens are on
      a Zone of Protection square.



                           Fate Harvest Card List


Singles


                                Corpuscle Rot
Yellow player destroys any 4th Tier token and starts a new token on the 1st
and 2nd Tiers (2 tokens in total). This card can also destroy 4th Tier
tokens on Zone of Protection squares. This card can be held for later use.
This card can be traded. This card can only be played by the Yellow player,
who may play it at any time.

The atoms in most life forms have been part of other life forms before.
Although reincarnation of the spirit is open to debate, the atoms in our
bodies may have existed in other humans centuries and millennia ago. The
same atoms may even have existed in dinosaurs for millions of years.

                             Galactic Roundabout
   Move every token (all tokens including Marauders and Tier tokens in the
      Zone of Protection) forward two spaces. This card must be played
                                immediately.

    How fast does the Milky Way spin? Does it spin faster than human-made
                           spacecraft can travel?

                                 Dwarf Star
  White player places a Marauder on the 4th Tier Birth Canal. This card can
    be traded. This card can be held for later use. This card can only be
          played by the White player, who may play it at any time.

   Main Phase Red Dwarf stars exist for much longer than other star types.
   Their relative stability on a galactic timescale suggests that advanced
      life forms are more likely to evolve in Red Dwarf solar systems.

                               Radiation Burst
  All Staging Piles are emptied. This card can be held for later use. This
                  card can only be played during your turn.

  Pulsars can generate beams of gamma rays, which can destroy all life on a
            planet if it's in the wrong place at the wrong time.

                              Materialize Army
 A Marauder joins you. Place a Marauder on any Tier's Birth Canal. This card
  can be held for later use. This card can only be played during your turn.

  Materializing (or coalescing) matter at long distances may eventually be
                                  possible.

                                Graviton Rift
 The Black player removes any one token (of any type) from each Tier (up to
  4 tokens in total). If there are no tokens on a Tier, no token is removed
      from that Tier. This card can also destroy Tier tokens on Zone of
   Protection squares. This card can be traded. This card can be held for
  later use. This card can only be played by the Black player, who may play
                  it at any time. This card has Precedence.

                         What does "graviton" mean?

                                Fluidic Wave
  Blue player removes all tokens from the 1st Tier. This includes tokens in
  play as well as tokens in Staging Piles, but does not include Tier tokens
  in the Zone of Protection. This card can be traded. This card can be held
   for later use. This card can only be played by the Blue player, who may
               play it at any time. This card has Precedence.

  Light travels in a way that exhibits properties of packets and waves, and
  is subject to gravity. This is why light bends around planets, and cannot
                             escape black holes.

                              Parallel Phasing
 Move any one of your tokens (of any type) forward four spaces and move any
  other player's token forward four spaces. You may not move an opponent's
      token if it's in the Zone of Protection. This card must be played
                                immediately.

   Parallel waves add together when in the same phase (mathematically) or
    negate each other when in diametrically opposed phases (this applies
                            primarily to fluids).

                                Plasma Burst
Red player chooses a Tier, then removes all tokens (of any type) from 3
neighboring squares on that Tier. This card can also destroy Tier tokens on
Zone of Protection squares. This card can be traded. This card can be held
for later use. This card can only be played by the Red player during their
turn (regardless of Tier Phase).

 The plasma phase of any element that has a plasma phase is hotter than its
                                 gas phase.

                               Verdant Growth
   The Green player starts a new token on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Tier Birth
 Canals (3 tokens in total). This card can be traded. This card can be held
   for later use. This card can only be played by the Green player during
                   their turn (regardless of Tier Phase).

 Planets where life flourishes are rarer than planets where life exists. One
 reason for this is the number and quantity of elements that can be used by
                                 life forms.


Doubles


                               Infernal Abyss
  Sacrifice any one of your tokens (of any type) from any Tier. You may not
  sacrifice any Tier tokens that are in the Zone of Protection. You should
          cry, "Ahhhhhhh..." This card must be played immediately.

 Only radiation escapes from Black Holes by following the magnetic pathways
                         created by the Black Hole.

                              Divine Assistance
  Choose and destroy any one token (of any type, on any Tier, and including
 those in Staging Piles). This card can also destroy Tier tokens on Zone of
         Protection squares.  This card must be played immediately.

  Divine assistance presumes that divinity cares, although the reasons for
           interference from a deity may be unknowable to humans.

                              Planetary Nebula
  Place a 2nd Dimensional Token in your 2nd Tier Birth Canal. This card can
 be held for later use. This card can only be played during your turn of the
                               2nd Tier Phase.

  Nebulae with high metallicity  and density produce planets with a higher
                       probability of being habitable.

                               Luckier Nebula
 Place a 2nd Dimensional Token in your 2nd Tier Staging Pile. This card must
                           be played immediately.

    Nebulae are formed when a sun goes supernova, dispersing the elements
     created by the sun as well as the elements of surrounding planets.

                             Essence Assimilator
   Place a Marauder on the 1st tier Birth Canal. This card must be played
                                immediately.

    If atoms can be teleported, you could theoretically project them to a
                 location at faster than the speed of light.

                      Skip, Hop, and Jump (Dimensional)
     Move any token (of any type) forward 3 spaces. You may not move an
  opponent's token if it's in the Zone of Protection. This card can be held
 for later use. This card can only be played during your turn (regardless of
                                Tier Phase).

        What if interstellar travel required propulsion that attached
   intermittently to other dimensions, and travel would be like skipping a
    flat stone on still water, with each skip on a dimension accelerating
    travel? Then it would truly only be a hop, skip, and a jump to other
                                  galaxies.

                              Materialize Help
 A Marauder joins you.  Place a Marauder token on the 3rd Tier Birth Canal.
                    This card must be played immediately.

   If inorganic matter can be teleported, can functional organic matter be
  teleported? Could an android be materialized on another planet and turned
                                on remotely?

                               Tactical Motion
     Move any token (of any type) forward 2 spaces. You may not move an
  opponent's token if it's in the Zone of Protection. This card may be held
      for later use. This card may be played at any time. This card has
                                 Precedence.

  Could a technologically advanced species move planets, or is it easier to
 travel to other planets in a galaxy? Moving a planet would require a lot of
   energy, whereas colonizing another solar system would require a lot of
                                    time.

                               Insidious Flux
 Choose a Staging Pile on any Tier. Destroy one token in that Staging Pile.
  This card can be held for later use. This card can only be played during
                    your turn (regardless of Tier Phase).

              Will future technologies use flux and capacitors?

                                 Phase Loss
  You lose the next turn on this Tier. (e.g. if you've just completed your
 move and landed on Fate Harvest on the 1st Tier, you lose your next turn on
   the 1st Tier. You do not lose the next turn for other Tiers.) This card
                         must be played immediately.

   The wavelength of light from stars decays, or shortens, the further the
                             star is from Earth.


Triples


                           Annulment (Antimatter)
 You may cancel the effect of any card that is played by playing this card.
  This card can be held for later use. This card takes Precedence over all
                                other cards.

   A large quantity of dark matter may exist between galaxies and at their
  centers (possibly even more dark matter in galaxies than normal matter),
  and is thought to have mass and gravitational properties. However, it is
  unlike antimatter in that it does not react with normal matter to release
                              bursts of energy.

                               Evasive Action
     Move any token (of any type) forward 2 spaces. You may not move an
    opponent's token if it's in the Zone of Protection. This card must be
                             played immediately.

     Space is anything but empty, since all matter created exists in the
 Universe, and due to the Law of Conservation, matter can neither be created
 nor destroyed. Outside the bounds of our Universe, however, where there are
  multiple dimensions interacting, matter is created with the birth of new
    universes, and destroyed when the dimensions of a universe collapse.

                                Lucky Nebula
 Place a 1st Dimensional Token in your 1st Tier Staging Pile. This card must
                           be played immediately.

 A binary system occurs when two suns orbit each other. If suns can form in
                   a nebula, planets can also form there.

                                Tactical Step
      Move any token (of any type) forward 1 space. You may not move an
  opponent's token if it's in the Zone of Protection. This card can be held
      for later use. This card may be played at any time. This card has
                                 Precedence.

  The fastest way to cross a galaxy is not a straight line due to galactic
                                  rotation.

                              Elemental Rebirth
 Place a token on the Birth Canal of the 1st Tier. This card must be played
                                immediately.

  Suns create and recycle elements, although the heaviest elements can only
                   be created in suns that go supernova..

                           Cleansing (Atmospheric)
   Choose an opponent.  That opponent must choose and discard one of their
  cards. The person discarding chooses which card to discard. This card can
    be held for later use. This card can only be played during your turn.

   Mars has less gravity than the Earth, and in combination with the solar
                    wind its atmosphere has washed away.

                               Delayed Motion
 Add +2 to your die roll.  This card must be played after your die roll, but
       before you move the token. This card can be held for later use.

  Neither suns nor galaxies are stationary, and the Law of Conservation of
  Momentum indicates that the relative emptiness of space will not slow the
  outward momentum of most matter from the center of the universe. Gravity,
   supernova, other cosmic events, and humans can change the direction in
                which matter is traveling in space, however.

                               Emitting Nebula
 Place a 1st Dimensional Token in your 1st Tier Staging Pile. This card can
 be held for later use. This card can only be played during your turn of the
                               1st Tier Phase.

    Some nebulae have higher energy densities than others, and emit much
                  greater quantities of energy into space.


Quadruples


                                  Last Gasp
           When playing this card, you must exclaim, "Last Gasp!"
  Move any one of your tokens (of any type) 8 spaces.  Any tokens you pass
 are destroyed as well as the moved token (except any tokens in the Zone of
 Protection, which are protected). This card can be held for later use. This
  card may be played at any time (regardless of Tier Phase). This card has
                                 Precedence.

  In a couple billion years, the sun will have expanded enough to roast the
           Earth, and will go supernova a few billion years later.

                                Phase Control
 Choose a Tier and go again on that Tier. You get an extra turn on the Tier
   chosen, taken after your normal turn on that Tier. If you choose to go
  again on a Tier for which your turn has already ended, play your turn on
        that Tier immediately. This card must be played immediately.

 In dimensions where light can exist, time exists. Time would continue exist
          in our universe even if there were no stars and no light.

                            Circulate (Elemental)
 Move any Tier token to the next Zone of Protection on that Tier. This card
    can be held for later use. This card must be played during your turn
                         (regardless of Tier Phase).

  During planetary formation, heavy elements sink and light elements rise.

                       Sidestep (Extinction Avoidance)
      Move any token (of any type) forward 1 space. You may not move an
  opponent's token if it's in the Zone of Protection. This card can be held
   for later use. This card must be played during your turn (regardless of
                                Tier Phase).

  As the evolution of species on Earth suggests, species with insufficient
                    resources can't sidestep extinction.


                        Tiers of Existence Parts List

  Some replacement playing pieces may be available from TheGameCrafter.com.

|Part            |Replacement Part|
|                |@               |
|                |thegamecrafter.c|
|                |om              |
|2x 4th Tier     |Large Bowling   |
|tokens per color|Pin             |
|4x 3rd Tier     |Avatar          |
|tokens per color|                |
|6x 2nd Tier     |Small Bowling   |
|tokens per color|Pin             |
|8x 1st Tier     |Halma           |
|tokens per color|                |
|4x Marauder     |                |
|tokens per      |                |
|color, specific |                |
|to color        |                |
|Green           |Eagle           |
|Red             |Cave Troll      |
|Black           |Orc Infantry    |
|Yellow          |Machine Gun Mech|
|                |or Laser Mech   |
|White           |Rocket          |
|Blue            |War Elephant    |
|1x 16mm black   |16mm black die  |
|die             |                |
|1x 16mm purple  |16mm purple die |
|die             |                |
|8x Plastic      |8x plastic bags |
|Baggies for     |5x7             |
|tokens and dice |                |
|2x 10"x16" game |N/A             |
|mats w/ 1st &   |                |
|2nd Tiers       |                |
|1x 10"x10" game |N/A             |
|mat w/ 4th Tier |                |
|1x 10"x10" game |N/A             |
|mat w/ 3rd Tier |                |
|1x Rulebook     |N/A             |
|70x Fate Harvest|N/A             |
|Cards           |                |
|1x spinner      |Spinner         |
|1x 8"x8" spinner|N/A             |
|card (Round     |                |
|Gear)           |                |
|1x Fate Harvest |72 card tuck box|
|Card Box        |(art not        |
|                |included)       |
|Box Bottom Art  |N/A             |
|Box Insert      |Box insert      |



Warning: Please remember that young children shouldn't play with plastic
bags nor small items like playing pieces and dice since they present a
choking hazard. By keeping this game you agree:


      That the game designer is not responsible for any harm caused by
      anything that's supposed to be contained in the game box when
      purchased.

   1. That the game designer is not liable for any harm caused by anything
      contained in the game box when it's received.
   2. That anything added to the game box after it has been purchased is
      certainly not the responsibility of the game designer.




This Edition of Tiers of Existence has been self-published through
www.thegamecrafter.com.



                                 Dedication


My deepest gratitude and most heartfelt thanks to valiant family and
friends who helped playtest this game nearly a decade ago. My enduring love
to family and friends who unflaggingly supported and encouraged me in the
creation of this game throughout the arduous and time-consuming process of
development.



